.\" Manpage for the Techno Terminal Assistant
.TH TECHNO 1 "Nov 2025" "Techno Rhythm Engine" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
techno \- terminal assistant to generate techno MIDI via sandboxed tools
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B techno
\[em] or \[em]
.B python -m techno_engine.terminal.app

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B techno
is a single-terminal REPL that accepts natural language requests to render
techno MIDI patterns and manage engine configs. It uses OpenAI tool-calling
to invoke a small, sandboxed set of local actions (render a session, create
or edit configs, list examples) and returns concise paths to generated files.

When an OpenAI API key is not configured, the assistant starts normally but
will print a friendly hint and remain in local mode.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
Project or personal API key used for OpenAI Chat Completions with tool calling.
Set this before launching the REPL. Example:
.nf
    export OPENAI_API_KEY='sk-...'
.fi
.TP
.B TECH_ENGINE_CONFIGS_DIR
Directory for readable/writable JSON configs (default: \fIconfigs/\fP).
.TP
.B TECH_ENGINE_OUT_DIR
Directory for generated outputs (default: \fIout/\fP).

.SH COMMANDS (REPL)
.TP
.B :help
Show help text.
.TP
.B :about
About this assistant.
.TP
.B :quit
Exit the REPL.

Natural language examples:
.IP \(bu 2
"make an urgent 8-bar groove at 140 bpm"
.IP \(bu 2
"render configs/m4_showcase.json"
.IP \(bu 2
"save this as configs/basic_95.json"

Outputs are concise one-liners with file paths, e.g.,
.nf
  \[ti]/project/out/abc123.mid
.fi

.SH FILES
.TP
.I configs/
User-editable JSON configs. The tool layer only reads/writes inside this folder
(or \fBTECH_ENGINE_CONFIGS_DIR\fP).
.TP
.I out/
Generated MIDI files and optional CSV logs (or \fBTECH_ENGINE_OUT_DIR\fP).

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Launch with a key
.nf
  source .venv/bin/activate
  export OPENAI_API_KEY='sk-...'
  PYTHONPATH=src python -m techno_engine.terminal.app
.fi

.SS Quick prompt
.nf
  techno> make an 8-bar groove at 140 bpm
  ✔ rendered out/3a9e.mid | 140 BPM, 8 bars
.fi

.SS Render from a config (no LLM)
.nf
  PYTHONPATH=src python -m techno_engine.run_config --config configs/m4_showcase.json
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
The REPL exits with status 0 on normal termination via \fB:quit\fP.

.SH SECURITY
- The assistant never prints secrets.
- All file writes are sandboxed to \fIconfigs/\fP and \fIout/\fP.
- Off-domain requests are refused; only registered tools are available.

.SH BUGS
Tool-calling requires network access. API errors are surfaced inline, e.g.,
"OpenAI error: 400 Bad Request". Verify the key and network connectivity.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR techno_engine.run_config (1),
.BR docs/ARCHITECTURE.md ,
.BR docs/TERMINAL_AI_ROADMAP.md ,
.BR roadmap

