.\" Manpage for Techno Showcase CLI
.TH TECHNO-SHOWCASE 1 "Nov 2025" "Techno Rhythm Engine" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
techno-showcase \- render a pack of drum+bass examples with a manifest and HTML index
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B PYTHONPATH=src python -m techno_engine.showcase
.br
[\fB--pack\fP \fIKEY\fP] [\fB--outdir\fP \fIDIR\fP] [\fB--quick\fP]
[\fB--key\fP \fIKEY\fP] [\fB--mode\fP \fIMODE\fP]
[\fB--scenario\fP \fINAME\fP]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtechno-showcase\fP renders a curated set of scenarios (drums + scored bass)
using built-in M4 configs. It writes per-scenario MIDIs, a manifest CSV/JSON
with E/S medians, and a simple \fIindex.html\fP for quick auditioning.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --pack \fIKEY\fP
Scenario pack key (default: \fIdefault\fP).
.TP
.B --outdir \fIDIR\fP
Output directory for the pack (default: \fIout/showcase\fP).
.TP
.B --quick
Render "short" variants where available.
.TP
.B --key \fIKEY\fP
Global bass key (e.g., A, Eb). Overrides per-scenario root.
.TP
.B --mode \fIMODE\fP
Global bass mode (minor/aeolian/dorian). Normalized internally.
.TP
.B --scenario \fINAME\fP
Limit to one or more specific scenarios by base name (e.g., \fIsyncopated_layers\fP).

.SH OUTPUTS
.IP \(bu 2
Per-scenario *_drums.mid and *_bass.mid files under \fIoutdir\fP.
.IP \(bu 2
Manifest CSV and JSON (paths, BPM, bars, E_med, S_med, key, mode).
.IP \(bu 2
index.html with a styled table of scenarios and links to MIDIs.

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Default pack to a custom directory
.nf
PYTHONPATH=src python -m techno_engine.showcase \\
  --outdir out/showcase_latest
.fi

.SS Filter to specific scenarios in A minor
.nf
PYTHONPATH=src python -m techno_engine.showcase \\
  --outdir out/showcase_minor --key A --mode minor \\
  --scenario syncopated_layers --scenario ghosty_sync_hats
.fi

.SH EXIT STATUS
Exits 0 on success; non-zero on bad scenario name or I/O errors.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR techno (1),
.BR techno-combo (1)

